>> Scott Moss: So active routes, this is
a common thing you do in every single app,
the fact that I have to talk about
it in intermediate course and
not a beginner course is telling
just how not simple it is.
But it actually is kind of simple, it's
just it doesn't make sense in the world
of server components, a client group
policy, so that's where it gets confusing.
So as you saw earlier, there's a hook,
call it use path name.
There's actually many hooks
that we could use for
trying to figure out the current route.
In fact, there's use
selected layout segment.
There's a lot going on here, I think this
will, which also adds to the confusion,
like which one of these hooks do you use?
This one has something to
do with parallel routes,
maybe it's kinda all over the place.
But in reality, all you really
wanna use is the use path name.
This one returns a string of
the current path name in the URL.
For the most part, that's what you want,
the other scenarios are a little
more advanced and things like that.
But for us, we just need this,
and the reason we want this is so
we can show a highlight on the nav bar
on the left of which route is active.
So, you know which one you're looking at.
>> Scott Moss: Because it's a hook,
it has to be in a client component.
So remember that has to
be in a client component.
If you want your nav bar to be a server
component and not a client component, then
what you would have to do is you'd have to
make every single link in your sidebar.
You'd have to make a link,
like a sidebar item component.
And that component would
use the use path name, and
you map over many of those inside
of your server, sidebar component.
So the sidebar itself will be server,
but then each individual links that get
rendered or the each individual items
are client side because they need
the hooks to know if they're
active route or not.
So you can do it that way as well.
And that's it, the strategy that next day
has to react is pushing people to try to
push client sides further down the stack.
If there is something that doesn't
need client interactivity,
make that a server component.
And if there's something
that needs interactivity,
just make that interaction
a client component.
So that's how they're trying to do it,
so it's like,
it's kind of like back in the day
when like Redux came out, and
everybody was making like components for
everything.
You make a component for like a text
[LAUGH] Or like a letter component.
[LAUGH] Okay, I get it.
We get it, you like components.
So it's kinda that, but like with
client components, all the way down.
So I didn't feel doing that,
so I didn't do it.
We are, though, because it is a hook,
you can't use it server side, okay?
So I talked about this earlier, you can't
use it on the server and trying to access
it from the server or trying to access
the current route on the server leads to.
As we talked about, if you access
something like the headers or cookies or
anything on the request changes
the strategy of how that route is treated.
So if you're, I'm gonna get the current
path name and do something here, but
I also want this route to be static.
Well, it's not gonna be static because you
just accessed the headers on the server
side, so you opted out of that and
you didn't even know it.
So you built it in production and then
that's when you saw it because on dev,
it works differently, so it's kinda weird.
But yeah, so let's, let's fix ours.
So in our, we have a component
called side, that's a sidebar.
We're gonna make a function that
takes a path, takes a route and
determines whether or
not it's the active point.
So, let's do that and
we'll go to side at the top.
I'm just gonna keep this function outside
the component store reason to put it in
having it recreated every single time,
cuz this is a client component so
it will rerender multiple times.
The path is the path from path name, the
route is there, one of these routes here.
>> Scott Moss: And it's pretty simple,
it's just a string check because every
one of them starts with slash dashboard,
but only one of them is
actually slash dashboard.
We check for that one first.
That means you're on the homepage,
the grid that we've been looking at.
All the other ones, I just need to
make sure if it includes this route,
then that's the path, cuz they all
have different names, so we got that.
And then really, the last thing
we need to do is just CSS stuff.
So, there's a lot of ways you
could do this, but actually,
I think it's different.
What I'm about to do is different
than what's in the notes, but
I like to use this function called cn,
which stands for, clap.
What is this,
what does it actually stand for?
It's like CLSX plus, Tailwind merge
together, best way I can describe it.
So I'll put my original classes in there,
and
then I'll say basically,
okay, if something is active,
so is,
>> Scott Moss: Is active,
pass in the path.
So we got to get the path here, so this
be path equals, use path name, like that.
So is active, passing the path and
then pass in the Linked out route.
>> Scott Moss: If that is true,
then I can say, cool.
Add these CSS classes which are active,
class like that.
>> Scott Moss: You can also
just interpolate which is what,
think I did in the notes.
>> Scott Moss: The CN thing,
it basically merges.
Class names together, and then it also
there's like this known issue with
tailwind classes that if you don't put
them in the right order, they don't work.
So this thing figures out the order in
which your teleclasses need to be in so
they work the way you thought they should.
So it does a combination
of those two things.
>> Scott Moss: Also tell when
classes are statically analyzed.
If you do not write the tell when class
out, verbatim, it won't be included.
So you can't dynamically
do things like this,
where this is like something here.
That's not gonna work cuz it doesn't know,
it can't statically analyze that, so
it won't get included.
So you have to write all your classes out.
If you didn't know that,
if you've ran into issues, that's why.
>> Scott Moss: Okay, so
we got that, and now,
maybe we can see some highlights.
On our sidebar, refresh my,
I got to start my,
>> Scott Moss: Do that, go back here and
refresh this, there we go.
So there's home,
okay there's events these don't work
cuz we haven't really made them but
there we go there's
events these don't work cuz
we haven't really made them.